Now, the cousin of
Carmel Gat one of the hostages
found dead in Gaza on Saturday.
Penned an emotional tribute
to her on Sunday.
Gil Dickman posted on IG
saying sorry, I'm
sorry we didn't stop
when it was still possible.
Sorry we let them kill you.
He also said
I wish you saw how your friends
fought to bring you back alive.
You also wrote that
I wish that in your memory,
thousands would come out
to demonstrate tonight,
just as I would have done
as you would have done.
40 year old Gat
was taken hostage
by Hamas on October 7th
while staying at her parents home.
And Gil Dickman
joins me now live from Tel Aviv.
Thank you so much for your time.
And can I first begin by saying
how sorry I am, Gil, for your loss
and sorry too, for the suffering
that your family
has been through for the past
11 months, only for it to end this way.
Yeah.
Thank you very, very much.
we can't really believe
that this is how it ends.
We didn't want it to end like this one.
And another ending for this
horrible story.
You know,
if Carmel wasn't
the only hostage from the family.
Her mother was murdered on October
7th by the terrorists
and her sister in law.
Yeah.
Then Ramon was also taken hostage,
and she was returned.
She was brought back home
on the 54th day of the war,
thanks to a ceasefire
that was signed between Israel and Hamas.
And we really hope that
a very similar ceasefire
would be signed between the two sides.
But we found out that it was very,
very hard
to bring the two sides to sign the deal.
Hamas is a terror organization.
I have no expectations from this horrible
that this horrible figure
you have seen while to sign the deal
that will actually
bring my my cousin home.
But we know that
Hamas has agreed to a deal at some point,
and Israel was the one
putting on more and more terms
and actually postponing the deal.
And right now,
we know that the decisions
that our Prime Minister Netanyahu,
is made
made it impossible for Carmel
and other hostages to return
and put their lives in grave danger.
And that's what killed them.
Hamas has said that the hostages
would be alive
if it weren't for the actions
of the Israeli government.
Who do you blame Gil
for the deaths of Carmel?
This blame game is a game to me.
And when I'm here for life and death,
no game.
It's both sides are to blame.
It's first of all,
that terror organization who took her
and all of the hostages.
They shouldn't have taken her.
She is an innocent and decent civilian,
and she wasn't supposed to be taken
in the first place.
A 40 year old woman
not related in any way
to not to the army
and not to anything else.
She was supposed to be at home
with her family,
and she was taken just like
kids and and other innocent
people were taken
and I blame, of course they blame Hamas.
And I also blame my government because
these are these are the
people that
should be in charge of the security
and the peace of,
of of people in Israel.
These are the people
that were supposed
to be responsible
for the life of people here,
and they were responsible
for the lives of all the hostages.
And they decided cold bloodedly
they voted just a few days ago
that the Philadelphia, the border between
Gaza and Egypt
is more important
than the lives of the hostages.
And that means that our government
decided that they're willing to sacrifice
the lives of the hostages.
They all voted.
The cabinet voted for it.
And we were shocked.
And we said, me
and my sister and all my family
and all the families
of all the hostages, we said,
this is crossing the red line.
And that would mean
the death of hostages.
And saying this.
I did not know how true it will be
and how specific and personal
it is going to become.
And and it was mainly
because been anyone else,
but it was Kamel,
and the lives of all the other hostages
are still in danger.
So we must act now.
The Israeli government
and the Israeli people,
these are the people chose to act.
They came out to the streets last night,
and they're out in the streets right now.
And it's very moving.
I'm sorry that we had to go
through this
horrible, horrible situation
in order for them to get out,
but they did.
And I really hope that the government,
our government,
will make the right decision
and push for a deal
that'll bring the hostages home.
It's been too long.
And and that was
what you were calling for
in your tribute to Kamal Gil.
You what?
You are calling on people to come out
and demonstrate in her memory.
And they have done that.
We've seen tens of thousands
and people take to the streets.
We're reporting on nationwide
protests, nationwide strike today.
Do you feel that this is a turning
point we're witnessing here?
I really hope that this is
the turning point, or a breaking point
or some kind of a change in reality,
which may be maybe
help the government
make the right decision.
But if
if it's just a one time thing, it's
it was supposed to be the largest protest
or demonstration
in the history of Israel.
This is very moving,
and I know that Kamal can see this,
but I know that's exactly what
you would have wanted
for people to come out.
And so
to demand the release
of the other hostages,
it's too late for her,
but it's not too late for them.
And I hope that they're not
the government
is not just going to look away
and to choose death over life,
because this is not what we believe
here in Israel,
and that's not what we believe
this war is about.
You know, you're giving a lot of airtime
to this war
because of things that are going on
on both sides of the border.
People think it's Israel versus Palestine
or Jews versus Muslims.
This is and has always been a fight
between people who believe in life
and who choose life,
and who choose a ceasefire.
They'll bring the hostages home
over the people who believe in death
and choose death.
And they know that the organization
that kidnaped Kamal
and that murdered her mother chose death.
They believe that death is sacred.
But I can't believe,
I still can't believe that
my government chose death.
And I urge you, Benjamin Netanyahu,
choose life.
Please sign the deal, seal the deal,
go to ceasefire
and save the hostages that
you can still save
you.
I understand that
you, your family,
had a chance to speak to the president
over the weekend,
that he reached out to
you and wanted to to talk,
but you refused.
Why did you do that?
And what is
what do you make of Benjamin
Netanyahu's actions in all of this?
Well, Prime Minister Netanyahu
has made it public
that he's going to approach the families
in order to speak to them.
Then he decided that he gave us
the message that he wants to speak to us.
We don't want to be a part of this media
circus of the prime Minister Netanyahu,
who is now using the murder of the
of the hostages in order to justify
staying there
and not getting out
and going to to a cease fire
and signing a deal,
which is unbelievable to me.
He's trying to use this to say,
if you murdered the hostages,
you don't want to deal.
And I didn't want to take part in this.
We didn't want to take part in this.
The family comments.
Family believe
that the Prime Minister of Israel is
responsible for her death.
He is her killer.
That's the fact.
He didn't pull the trigger,
but he left her there
knowing that that means she sees
life, danger, death, danger,
and knowing these risks.
This is actually it's killing.
And we we don't want to talk to him.
And we I don't feel like
he he could be convinced
by a conversation. Heart to heart.
I spoke to him.
I saw him
and how he reacted to two hostages
who came back from captivity
and spoke about what
they went through there.
It doesn't look like it moved him.
I don't feel like
his heart is open
to this kind of conversation.
I think we only understand
the language of politics.
That's maybe something that happens to
you after
so many, so many years in your job.
Everything becomes politics.
Even the life
and death of people becomes pure,
pure math
of whether it would bring me more support
or less support
would let him stay in power
or lose power.
And if that's what it is,
then that's the language
that we should speak to him.
We must go out to the streets
and protest in our democratic way.
And this is not an anti-Israeli thing
to do.
The exact opposite.
This is the most Israeli thing to do.
We came out with Israeli flags
and with hostages, yellow flags
to tell him the Democratic thing to do.
If you want to stay in power,
if you want to have any legitimacy
to act in our name, save their lives
and sign the deal now.